# a) How much revenue did Pump generate and can you decompose this for each action? E.g. [pump.fun](http://pump.fun/) takes fees for each trade on the bonding curve, so one revenue component would be the sum of all “trades via the bonding curve” (the distinct action).

The total revenue Pump generated is around **499,833 SOL, around 75 million.**

1. **Trading fee via the bonding curve: around 302271 SOL**

PUMP.FUN charges 1% of the platform transaction fee before listing on Raydium.

 The address of Pump.fun Fee Account (`CebN5WGQ4jvEPvsVU4EoHEpgzq1VV7AbicfhtW4xC9iM`) accumulates all the transaction fees via the bonding curve. According to SOLSCAN, on 30 August, 2024, the SOL balance of  the address is 302,271.1 SOL ( \$ 42,342,136.26 ).

2. **Listing fee on Raydium: around 159390 SOL**

PUMP.FUN charges 6 SOL of the listing fee once the token is removed on Pump.Fun and listed on Raydium. According to the Pump.fun program address (`6EF8rrecthR5Dkzon8Nwu78hRvfCKubJ14M5uBEwF6P`), the cumulative number of tokens to Raydium is 26565. To estimate the listing fee, there is 26565 *6 sol = 159390 SOL.

*code to calculate the cumulative number of tokens deployed to Raydium:*

```SQL
SELECT
  block_date,
  count(distinct token_address) as withdraw_token_cnt,
  sum(count(distinct token_address)) over (
    order by block_date asc
  ) as total_withdraw_token_cnt
FROM
  (
    SELECT *
    FROM
      (
        -- block_slot >= 266793916 withdraw txn
        SELECT
          account_arguments[3] token_address,
          account_arguments[4] bonding_curve,
          *
        FROM
          solana.instruction_calls
        WHERE
          executing_account = '6EF8rrecthR5Dkzon8Nwu78hRvfCKubJ14M5uBEwF6P'
          AND bytearray_substring (data, 1, 8) = 0xb712469c946da122 -- global:withdraw sha256 first 8 byte
          AND tx_success = true
          AND block_slot >= 266793916
      )
    UNION
    (
      SELECT
        account_arguments[2] token_address,
        account_arguments[4] bonding_curve,
        *
      FROM
        solana.instruction_calls
      WHERE
        executing_account = '6EF8rrecthR5Dkzon8Nwu78hRvfCKubJ14M5uBEwF6P'
        AND bytearray_substring (data, 1, 8) = 0xb712469c946da122 -- global:withdraw sha256 first 8 byte
        AND tx_success = true
        AND block_slot < 266793916
    )
  )
GROUP BY
  block_date
```

3. **Token creation fee: around 38172 SOL**

Pump.fun previously charges 0.02 sol for one token created on the platform.

According to the Pump.fun program address (`6EF8rrecthR5Dkzon8Nwu78hRvfCKubJ14M5uBEwF6P`), the cumulative number of tokens created on pump is around 1908576. To estimate the token creation fee, there is 1908576 *0.02 sol = 38171.52 SOL.

Note that, on 9 Aug, 2024, Pump claimed that coin creation is now free and shifts this token deployment fee to first buyers. Since the rule changed in a very recent time, the estimation is still calculated as 0.02 sol per token.

*code to calculate the cumulative number of tokens created on Pump:*

```SQL
with tmp as(
    SELECT
        block_date,
      count(distinct account_arguments[1]) as distinct_token_address
    FROM
      solana.instruction_calls
    WHERE
      executing_account = '6EF8rrecthR5Dkzon8Nwu78hRvfCKubJ14M5uBEwF6P'
      AND bytearray_substring (data, 1, 8) = 0x181ec828051c0777 -- global:create sha256 first 8 byte
      AND tx_success = true
    GROUP BY block_date
)

select 
*,
sum(distinct_token_address) over(order by block_date asc) as cumulative_token_created
from tmp 
order by block_date desc
```


# b) What percentage of tokens were successfully deployed to Raydium? Find the tokens that: Took the most time to deploy to Raydium. Took the least amount of time to deploy to Raydium.

According to the calculation above, there are around 1908576 tokens created on pumpfun and 26565 tokens launched on Raydium, so only about **1.4%** tokens were successfully deployed to Raydium.

Among tokens created on Pump and successfully deployed to Raydium, 50% of them took less than 15 minutes to deploy to Raydium, 75th percentile of the tokens took around 60 minutes, and the longest time for the succesful tokens is around 5 hours.


# c) Using the information gained from the above sub-questions about fee generation, were there any cases where the pump team had a clear incentive to buy any given token created through their platform? If yes, provide an example. If no, explain the conditions under which this incentive would exist.

According to the function of the bonding curve, the higher the bonding curve progresses, the greater the price increase caused by a unit purchase. And when it is deployed on Raydium, the price of the token would be around 14.6 times the initial price on Pump.

So in the later progress of the bonding curve, the pump team would have incentive to buy the token and help it finish the bonding curve, to earn bonding curve transaction fee, listing fee, and the gains from price increase on Raydium.

However, the pump team would not have a clear incentive to help finish the last period of every bonding curve. Firstly, the token would be more attractive if it was more evenly distributed.  The number of addresses identified to have received tokens but show no buying activity is also an alert, as this may indicate addresses controlled by the project team that are preparing to dump tokens. The number, making up about 5%-15% of all addresses, is an acceptable level.

Secondly, the larger the liquidity, the better, but it should be within a healthy range. For a well-established project, its trading volume and market capitalization should ideally be commensurate. If the trading volume is significantly smaller, it may be a clear sign of heavy control by a few entities.

Thirdly, the more number of traders, the better, and it should be considered in conjunction with liquidity. If a project has a large number of traders but very low trading volume, it indicates that many addresses received tokens but never traded them, suggesting they could be "insider" addresses. On the other hand, if trading volume is high but the number of traders is small, it might mean that a single large holder is manipulating the market by trading with themselves.

Last but not least, the higher the level of discussion on social media and the number of influencers, the better.
